README.md, before:

# Hardhat Fund Me - Typescript Edition

This is a section of the Javascript Blockchain/Smart Contract FreeCodeCamp Course.

Video Coming soon...

[Full Repo](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/full-blockchain-solidity-course-js)

- [Hardhat Fund Me - Typescript Edition](#hardhat-fund-me---typescript-edition)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [Quickstart](#quickstart)
  - [Typescript](#typescript)
- [Useage](#useage)
  - [Testing](#testing)
    - [Test Coverage](#test-coverage)
- [Deployment to a testnet or mainnet](#deployment-to-a-testnet-or-mainnet)
  - [Scripts](#scripts)
  - [Estimate gas](#estimate-gas)
    - [Estimate gas cost in USD](#estimate-gas-cost-in-usd)
  - [Verify on etherscan](#verify-on-etherscan)
    - [Typescript differences](#typescript-differences)
- [Linting](#linting)
- [Thank you!](#thank-you)

This project is apart of the Hardhat FreeCodeCamp video.

Video coming soon...

# Getting Started

## Requirements

- [git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
  - You'll know you did it right if you can run `git --version` and you see a response like `git version x.x.x`
- [Nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en/)
  - You'll know you've installed nodejs right if you can run:
    - `node --version` and get an ouput like: `vx.x.x`
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install) instead of `npm`
  - You'll know you've installed yarn right if you can run:
    - `yarn --version` and get an output like: `x.x.x`
    - You might need to [install it with `npm`](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/) or `corepack`

## Quickstart

```
git clone --branch typescript https://github.com/PatrickAlphaC/hardhat-fund-me-fcc
cd hardhat-fund-me-fcc
yarn
yarn typechain
```

## Typescript

If you want to get to typescript and you cloned the javascript version, just run:

```
git checkout typescript
```

# Useage

Deploy:

```
yarn hardhat deploy
```

## Testing

```
yarn hardhat test
```

### Test Coverage

```
yarn hardhat coverage
```


# Deployment to a testnet or mainnet

1. Setup environment variabltes

You'll want to set your `KOVAN_RPC_URL` and `PRIVATE_KEY` as environment variables. You can add them to a `.env` file, similar to what you see in `.env.example`.

- `PRIVATE_KEY`: The private key of your account (like from [metamask](https://metamask.io/)). **NOTE:** FOR DEVELOPMENT, PLEASE USE A KEY THAT DOESN'T HAVE ANY REAL FUNDS ASSOCIATED WITH IT.
  - You can [learn how to export it here](https://metamask.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360015289632-How-to-Export-an-Account-Private-Key).
- `KOVAN_RPC_URL`: This is url of the kovan testnet node you're working with. You can get setup with one for free from [Alchemy](https://alchemy.com/?a=673c802981)

2. Get testnet ETH

Head over to [faucets.chain.link](https://faucets.chain.link/) and get some tesnet ETH. You should see the ETH show up in your metamask.

3. Deploy

```
yarn hardhat deploy --network kovan
```

## Scripts

After deploy to a testnet or local net, you can run the scripts. 

```
yarn hardhat run scripts/fund.ts
```

or
```
yarn hardhat run scripts/withdraw.ts
```

## Estimate gas

You can estimate how much gas things cost by running:

```
yarn hardhat test
```

And you'll see and output file called `gas-report.txt`

### Estimate gas cost in USD

To get a USD estimation of gas cost, you'll need a `COINMARKETCAP_API_KEY` environment variable. You can get one for free from [CoinMarketCap](https://pro.coinmarketcap.com/signup). 

Then, uncomment the line `coinmarketcap: COINMARKETCAP_API_KEY,` in `hardhat.config.ts` to get the USD estimation. Just note, everytime you run your tests it will use an API call, so it might make sense to have using coinmarketcap disabled until you need it. You can disable it by just commenting the line back out. 


## Verify on etherscan

If you deploy to a testnet or mainnet, you can verify it if you get an [API Key](https://etherscan.io/myapikey) from Etherscan and set it as an environemnt variable named `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY`. You can pop it into your `.env` file as seen in the `.env.example`.

In it's current state, if you have your api key set, it will auto verify kovan contracts!

However, you can manual verify with:

```
yarn hardhat verify --constructor-args arguments DEPLOYED_CONTRACT_ADDRESS
```

### Typescript differences
1. `.js` files are now `.ts`
2. We added a bunch of typescript and typing packages to our `package.json`. They can be installed with:
   1. `yarn add @typechain/ethers-v5 @typechain/hardhat @types/chai @types/node ts-node typechain typescript`
3. The biggest one being [typechain](https://github.com/dethcrypto/TypeChain)
   1. This gives your contracts static typing, meaning you'll always know exactly what functions a contract can call. 
   2. This gives us `factories` that are specific to the contracts they are factories of. See the tests folder for a version of how this is implemented. 
4. We use `imports` instead of `require`. Confusing to you? [Watch this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mK54Cn4ceac)
5. Add `tsconfig.json`

# Linting

To check linting / code formatting:
```
yarn lint
```
or, to fix: 
```
yarn lint:fix
```

# Thank you!

If you appreciated this, feel free to follow me or donate!

ETH/Polygon/Avalanche/etc Address: 0x9680201d9c93d65a3603d2088d125e955c73BD65

[![Patrick Collins Twitter](https://img.shields.io/badge/Twitter-1DA1F2?style=for-the-badge&logo=twitter&logoColor=white)](https://twitter.com/PatrickAlphaC)
[![Patrick Collins YouTube](https://img.shields.io/badge/YouTube-FF0000?style=for-the-badge&logo=youtube&logoColor=white)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCn-3f8tw_E1jZvhuHatROwA)
[![Patrick Collins Linkedin](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/patrickalphac/)
[![Patrick Collins Medium](https://img.shields.io/badge/Medium-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=medium&logoColor=white)](https://medium.com/@patrick.collins_58673/)

Commit message:

Update README.md file - Sepolia Update

README.md, after:

# Hardhat Fund Me - Typescript Edition

This is a section of the Javascript Blockchain/Smart Contract FreeCodeCamp Course.

⌨️ [(10:00:48) Lesson 7: Hardhat Fund Me](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gyMwXuJrbJQ&t=36048s)

[Full Repo](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/full-blockchain-solidity-course-js)

- [Hardhat Fund Me - Typescript Edition](#hardhat-fund-me---typescript-edition)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [Quickstart](#quickstart)
  - [Typescript](#typescript)
- [Useage](#useage)
  - [Testing](#testing)
    - [Test Coverage](#test-coverage)
- [Deployment to a testnet or mainnet](#deployment-to-a-testnet-or-mainnet)
  - [Scripts](#scripts)
  - [Estimate gas](#estimate-gas)
    - [Estimate gas cost in USD](#estimate-gas-cost-in-usd)
  - [Verify on etherscan](#verify-on-etherscan)
    - [Typescript differences](#typescript-differences)
- [Linting](#linting)
- [Thank you!](#thank-you)

This project is apart of the Hardhat FreeCodeCamp video.

# Getting Started

## Requirements

- [git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
  - You'll know you did it right if you can run `git --version` and you see a response like `git version x.x.x`
- [Nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en/)
  - You'll know you've installed nodejs right if you can run:
    - `node --version` and get an ouput like: `vx.x.x`
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install) instead of `npm`
  - You'll know you've installed yarn right if you can run:
    - `yarn --version` and get an output like: `x.x.x`
    - You might need to [install it with `npm`](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/) or `corepack`

## Quickstart

```
git clone --branch typescript https://github.com/PatrickAlphaC/hardhat-fund-me-fcc
cd hardhat-fund-me-fcc
yarn
yarn typechain
```

## Typescript

If you want to get to typescript and you cloned the javascript version, just run:

```
git checkout typescript
```

# Useage

Deploy:

```
yarn hardhat deploy
```

## Testing

```
yarn hardhat test
```

### Test Coverage

```
yarn hardhat coverage
```


# Deployment to a testnet or mainnet

1. Setup environment variabltes

You'll want to set your `SEPOLIA_RPC_URL` and `PRIVATE_KEY` as environment variables. You can add them to a `.env` file, similar to what you see in `.env.example`.

- `PRIVATE_KEY`: The private key of your account (like from [metamask](https://metamask.io/)). **NOTE:** FOR DEVELOPMENT, PLEASE USE A KEY THAT DOESN'T HAVE ANY REAL FUNDS ASSOCIATED WITH IT.
  - You can [learn how to export it here](https://metamask.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360015289632-How-to-Export-an-Account-Private-Key).
- `SEPOLIA_RPC_URL`: This is url of the sepolia testnet node you're working with. You can get setup with one for free from [Alchemy](https://alchemy.com/?a=673c802981)

2. Get testnet ETH

Head over to [faucets.chain.link](https://faucets.chain.link/) and get some tesnet ETH. You should see the ETH show up in your metamask.

3. Deploy

```
yarn hardhat deploy --network sepolia
```

## Scripts

After deploy to a testnet or local net, you can run the scripts. 

```
yarn hardhat run scripts/fund.ts
```

or
```
yarn hardhat run scripts/withdraw.ts
```

## Estimate gas

You can estimate how much gas things cost by running:

```
yarn hardhat test
```

And you'll see and output file called `gas-report.txt`

### Estimate gas cost in USD

To get a USD estimation of gas cost, you'll need a `COINMARKETCAP_API_KEY` environment variable. You can get one for free from [CoinMarketCap](https://pro.coinmarketcap.com/signup). 

Then, uncomment the line `coinmarketcap: COINMARKETCAP_API_KEY,` in `hardhat.config.ts` to get the USD estimation. Just note, everytime you run your tests it will use an API call, so it might make sense to have using coinmarketcap disabled until you need it. You can disable it by just commenting the line back out. 


## Verify on etherscan

If you deploy to a testnet or mainnet, you can verify it if you get an [API Key](https://etherscan.io/myapikey) from Etherscan and set it as an environemnt variable named `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY`. You can pop it into your `.env` file as seen in the `.env.example`.

In it's current state, if you have your api key set, it will auto verify kovan contracts!

However, you can manual verify with:

```
yarn hardhat verify --constructor-args arguments DEPLOYED_CONTRACT_ADDRESS
```

### Typescript differences
1. `.js` files are now `.ts`
2. We added a bunch of typescript and typing packages to our `package.json`. They can be installed with:
   1. `yarn add @typechain/ethers-v5 @typechain/hardhat @types/chai @types/node ts-node typechain typescript`
3. The biggest one being [typechain](https://github.com/dethcrypto/TypeChain)
   1. This gives your contracts static typing, meaning you'll always know exactly what functions a contract can call. 
   2. This gives us `factories` that are specific to the contracts they are factories of. See the tests folder for a version of how this is implemented. 
4. We use `imports` instead of `require`. Confusing to you? [Watch this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mK54Cn4ceac)
5. Add `tsconfig.json`

# Linting

To check linting / code formatting:
```
yarn lint
```
or, to fix: 
```
yarn lint:fix
```

# Thank you!

If you appreciated this, feel free to follow me or donate!

ETH/Polygon/Avalanche/etc Address: 0x9680201d9c93d65a3603d2088d125e955c73BD65

[![Patrick Collins Twitter](https://img.shields.io/badge/Twitter-1DA1F2?style=for-the-badge&logo=twitter&logoColor=white)](https://twitter.com/PatrickAlphaC)
[![Patrick Collins YouTube](https://img.shields.io/badge/YouTube-FF0000?style=for-the-badge&logo=youtube&logoColor=white)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCn-3f8tw_E1jZvhuHatROwA)
[![Patrick Collins Linkedin](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0077B5?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/patrickalphac/)
[![Patrick Collins Medium](https://img.shields.io/badge/Medium-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=medium&logoColor=white)](https://medium.com/@patrick.collins_58673/)
